abate,(of something negative) become less intense or widespread. cause to become smaller or less intense
abeyance,a state of temporary disuse or suspension
abjure,solemnly renounce
abscission,the natural detachment of parts of a plant
abscond,leave hurriedly and secretly, typically to avoid detection of or arrest for an unlawful action
accretion,the process of growth or increase, typ. by gradual accumlation of layers or matter. a thing formed by gradual growth or increase
accrue,increase by small amounts (usually money)
adjunct
affected,influenced or touched by an external factor. artificial, pretentious, designed to impress
aggrandize,increase the power, status, or wealth of
allay
amalgamate
ambivalence,the state of having mixed feelings or contradictory ideas about something or someone
ameliorate,make (something bad) better
amenable
amenity
anodyne,not likely to provoke dissent or offense; inoffensive, often deliberately so. (noun) a painkilling drug or medicine
apothegm,an aphorism
appease,pacify or placate by acceding to a person's demands
appellation,a name or title. the action of giving a name to a person or thing
apposite,apt (or fitting) in the circumstances or in relation to something. 'an apposite remark' ie, a fitting remark
apprise
apropos,[adj] very appropriate to the situation. [prep] with reference to / concerning. [adv] used to state a speakers belief that someone's comments / acts are unrelated to any previous discussion or situation
arabesque,ornamental design. ballet posture (one legged stand, one leg back, lean forward)
argot,the jargon or slang of a particular group / class
ascetic,characterized by or suggesting the practice of severe self-discipline and abstention from all forms of indulgence
asperity
aspersion
assiduous
assuage
astringent
atavism,relating to or characterized by reversion to something ancient or ancestral
attenuate,reduce the force / effect / value of
aver,state or assert to be the case
avocation,a hobby or minor occupation
avuncular,of or relating to an uncle; kind and friendly toward a younger or less experienced person
axiomatic
bacchanalian,characterized by or given to drunken revelry; riotously drunken
bawdy,dealing with sexual matters in a comical way; humorously indecent
beatify
bedizen,to dress up or decorate gaudily (bedizened for adjective)
belie,fail to give a true notion or impression of; disguise or contradict
beneficent
blandishment,flatter or pleasing statement or action used to persuade someone to gently do something
blasé,unimpressed or indifferent to something because one has experienced or seen it so often before
bombastic,high-sounding but with little meaning; inflated
boorish
burgeon,begin to grow or increase rapidly; flourish
burnish,polish something by rubbing. enhance or perfect (reputation, skill)
cacophonous ,involving or producing a harsh mixture of sounds
cadge,ask for or obtain (something to which one is not strictly entitled)
calumny,the making of false and defamatory statements in order to damage someone's reputation; slander
canard
canon,a general law, rule, principle, etc., by which something is judged. a collectioon or list of sacrad books accepted as genuine
cant,hypocritical and sanctimonious talk, typically of a moral, religious, or political nature
cantankerous
captious
cardinal,a leading member of the catholic church. of the gretest importance / fundamental. (cardinality) the number of elements in a set or group
carping,difficult to please
castigation
cataclysm,large scale and violent event in nature. (social) sudden violent upheaval
categorical,unambiguously explicit and direct
caucus,a meeting of members of a legislative body of a particular party to select candidates or decide policy, members thereof. a group of people with shared concerns within a political party or larger org.
centrifugal
centripetal
chicanery,the use of trickery to acheive political, financial, legal purpose
churlish
circuitous,longer than the most direct way
clairvoyant,supernatural ability to perceive events in the future
coalesce,come together and form one mass or whole
compendium,a collection of concise but detailed information about a particular subject, especially in a book or other publication.
compunction
conciliatory,intended or likely to placate or pacify
congenial
consecrate
continence,able to control movements of bowel / bladder. exercising self-restraint, esp. sexually
contrite,feeling or expressing remorse or penitence
contumacious
convivial,(of atmosphere or event) friendly, lively, enjoyable. (of person) cheerful and friendly, jovial
cozen,trick or deceive
craven,contemptibly lacking in courage; cowardly
daunt,make (someone) feel intimidated or apprehensive
dearth,scarcity or lack of something
deference,humble submission and respect
defunct,no longer existing or functioning
delineate,describe / portray precisely. indicate exact position (of border / boundary)
demotic,denoting or relative to the kind of language used by ordinary people; popular or colloquial
demur
denigrate,criticize unfairly, disparage
denizen
desiccate,remove the moisture from (esp. food), typ. to preserve it. lacking interest, passion, or energy
desuetude,a state of disuse
desultory,lacking a plan, purpose, or enthusiasm. of conversation, going from one subject to another in halfhearted way. occuring randomly or occasionally
detraction,reduce or take away the worth or value of
diffidence,modesty or shyness resulting from a lack of self-confidence
dirge
disabuse
discomfit
discordant,disagreeing / incongrous. harsh lack of harminoy
disinterested,not influenced by considerations of personal advantage. having or feeling no interest in something. impartial
disjointed,lacking a coherent sequence or connection
dissemble
dissolution,the closing of an assembly. debauched living / dissipation
distrait,distracted or absentminded
divest,deprive someone of power, rights, or possessions
doctrinaire
dross
ebullient,cheerful and full of energy
effervescent,giving off bubbles. vivacious and enthusiastic
Elysian
emollient,having the quality of softening or soothing the skin; attempting to avoid conconfrontation or anger, soothing or calming
encomium
enervate
effrontery
epistemology,the theory of knowledge
equable
equanimity
equivocate
ethnocentric,evaluating othe rpeoples and cultures according to the standards of one's own culture
etiology
evince
execrable,extremely bad or unpleasant
exhort,strongly encourage or urge someone to do something
exigency,an urgent need or demand. (exigant) pressing or demanding
expiate,atone for (guilt or sin)
explicate,analyze and develop (an idea or principal) in detail
expository,intended to explain or describe something formal
extemporaneous,spoken or done without preparation
factotum,an employee who does all kinds of work
fallow,(of farmland) plowed and harrowed by left unsown to restore fertility. (of sow) not pregnant. a pale brown or reddish yellow color
fatuous,silly and pointless
felicitous ,well chosen or suited to the circumstances
fetid
fetid
flag
florid
flout
foment
forbearance,patient self-control; restraint and tolerance
forswear,agree to give up or do without something
founder
fracas
fractious,difficult to control, unruly, quarrelsome
frieze,a broad horizontal band of sculpted or painted decoration, esp. on a wall or near the ceiling
froward
fulminate
fulsome,complimentary or flattering to an excessive degree
gainsay
gambol
garrulous,excessively talkative, esp. on trivial matters
gauche,lacking ease or grace; unsophisticated and socially awkward
geniality,the quality of having a friendly and cheerful manner
gerrymander,manipulate the boundaries of (an electoral constituency) so as to favor one party or class
gossamer
grouse,very good. (other meaning): complain pettily
gustatory,concerned with tasting or the sense of taste
halcyon,denoting a period of time in the past that was idyllically happy and peaceful
harangue,lengthy agressive speech, [v] to lecture at length aggrisively / critically
hermetic
heterodox,not conforming with accepted or orthodox standards or beliefs
histrionic,overly theatrical or melodramatic in character or style. of or concerning actors / acting
homily
iconoclastic
igneous,having solidified from lava or magma. relating to or involving volcanic processes. of a fire, fiery
imbroglio,an extremely confused, complicated, or embarrassing situation
impassive,not feeling or showing emotion
impecunious,having little or no money
impinge
impute,represent as being done, caused, or possessed by someone ('the crimes imputed to Richard...')
inchoate
incursion,an invasion or attack, esp. a sudden or brief one
indigence,a state of extreme poverty
ineluctable,unable to be resisted or avoided; inescapable
ingenuous,innocent and unsuspecting
insouciant
intangible,unable to be touched or grasped; not having physical presence
interdict,an authoritative prohibition
internecine,destructive to both sides in a conflict. of or relating to conflict within a group or organization
interregnum
intransigence,unwilling or refusing to change one's view or to agree about something
inured
invective
inveigh
inveigle,persuade (someone) to do something by means of deception or flattery
invidious,likely to arouse or incur resentment or anger in others. unfairly discriminating / unjust
irascible
irresolute
itinerant
jaundiced,affected by jaundice. affected by bitterness, resentment, envy.
jibe,an insulting mocking remark. (informal) be in accord with. (sailing) change course by swinging sail across a following wind
jocose,playful or humorous
junta
kudos
labile,liable to change; easily altered. (also capricious / emotionally unstable)
lambaste
lascivious,feeling or revealing an overt and often offensive sexual desire
lassitude
levee
levity,humor or frivolity, esp. with the treatment of a serious matter / lacking due respect
Lilliputian
limn,depict or describe in painting or words
limpid
litany
lucre
machinations,engage in plots and intrigues, scheme.
maelstrom
magnanimity,the condition of being very generous or forgiving, esp. toward a rival or someone less power
malign
malinger,exaggerate or feign illness in order to escape duty or work
menagerie
mendacious,not telling the truth; lying
meretricious,apparently attractive but having in reality no value or integrity (from latin 'meretrix', meaning prostitute)
mettlesome
militate
minatory
multifarious,many and of various types; having many varied parts or aspects
mundane,lacking interest or excitement, dull. of this earthly world rather than heavenly or spiritual one
necromancy,witchcraft, sorcery, black magic
neologism,a newly coined word or expression
nexus
nonplussed
nostrum
nugatory
obdurate,stubbornly refusing to change one's opinion or course of action
obsequious,obedient or attentive to an excessive or servile degree
obsequy,a funeral or burial right (usually plural, obsequies)
officious,assertive of authority in an annoyingly domineering way, esp. for trivial matters. intrusively enthusiastic in offering help or advice; interfering
opprobrium
ostentatious
overweening,showing excessive confidence or pride
paean,a song of praise or triumph
panegyric
partisan,a strong supporter of a party, cause, or person
pathological
patois,the dialect of the common people of a region. the jargon or informal speech used by a particular social group
paucity
pellucid
penury,extreme poverty; destitution
peregrination
peremptory,insiting on immediate attention or obedience, esp. in a brusquely imperious way
perfidious
perfunctory
petulant,childishly sulky or bad-tempered
pique,a feeling of irritation or resentment resulting from a slight. [with obj] stimulate interest or curiosity
placate,make (someone) less angry or hostile
platitude,a remark or statement, esp. one with moral content, that has been used too often to be interesting or thoughtful
platitude
plutocracy,government by the wealthy
precept
precipitate
precursor
preempt
prehensile
preternatural,beyond what is normal or natural
prevaricate
probity
prodigal
propitiate
proscribe
provident
puissant
punctilious
pusillanimous
quail,feel or show apprehension
qualm,an uneasy feeling of doubt, worry, or fear, esp. about one's own conduct. a momentary faint or sick feeling
quiescent
quorum,the minimum number of members of an assembly or society that must be present at any of its meetings to make the proceedings of that meeting valid
raconteur
raiment
rarefied,of lower pressure than usual / thin. distant from the lives and concerns of ordinary people
rebus
recalcitrant,having an obstinately uncooperative attitude toward authority or discipline
recant,say that one no longer holds an opinion or believe (esp. one considered heretical)
recondite
redoubtable
refractory
refulgent,shining brightly
regale
remonstrate
repine
reprise,a repeated passage in music. a repetition or further performance of something. (reprisal) an act of retaliation
reprobate,an unprincipled person (often used humorously or affectionately)
riposte
rubric
salacious
salubrious
salutary
saturnine
satyr
sedulous,showing dedication and diligence
sinecure
sodden
solicitous
solvent
soporific
sordid,involving ignoble actions and motives / arousing moral distaste and contempt. dirty or squalid
staccato
stanch
stentorian
stint
stolid
stricture
stultify
stygian
subsume
succor
supine
suppliant
supplicant
syllogism,a form of reasoning, conclusion is drawn from two assumed premises (all dogs are animals, all animals have four legs, therefoore all dogs have four legs)
sylvan
toady
torpor
tortuous
tractable,(of person, animal) easy to control or influence. (of situation) easy to deal with
travail
travesty
treatise
tremulous
trepidation
truculence
tumid
turbid
turgid
tutelary
untoward
valedictory
vaunt,boast about or praise (something), esp. excessively
venal,showing or motivated by a susceptibility to bribery
veracious
vitiate
vituperative
welter
wistful
synoptic
cloy
pertinacious
truculent
atomism
craven,contemptibly lacking in courage; cowardly
misanthrope,a person who dislikes humankind and avoids human society
perfunctory
moribund,(of person) at the point of death. (of a thing) in terminal decline, lacking vitality or vigor
soporific,tending to induce drowsiness or sleep
rococo
curio,a rare, unusual, intriguing object
autocrat
exculpate
plebiscite,the direct vote of all members of an electorate on an important public question (ie, change of constitution)
grandiloquent
reticent,not revealing one's thoughts or feelings readily
intimation
flounder
anomie